Everyone, welcome back.
And now we will solve a very interesting problem from cold forces formalism.
So as now, we have ignored some basics of deep in basics of substance and problem.
I want.
You do focus on the model of some problem and it's a very, very interesting problem.
Said this is good for Cicerone 319 Division two and it's a big problem order to be a problem.
It should be easy.
But I think that this problem should be targeted because it tells us a lot about model laws and mathematics
and dynamic programming and it's all combined in this LHC problem statement is very simple, which is
you are given a sequence of numbers even to A N and E and a number in one.
So we have two things here.
So check if it is possible to choose a non m d sub sequence e.g. such that the sum of this seat is subsequent
is divisible by impolite.
This is actually so absurd.
Some problem with one extra thing that this absurd sum should be divisible by.
M eight.
So let's see the constraint, because those are very important to you.
In every community program, problem constraints are the thing, right?
So we need to think this solution on the basis of constraints because, you know, when when we are
doing this reprogramming thing, then.
We always know the brute force, but that would never be accepted.
NCP.
Then we come to a more optimal solution.
Then we come to furthermore optimise solutions.
We want to come up with a solution with according to the constraints.
So let's say we became on to like three solutions.
So two out of those three solutions might be good solutions.
But what if they are not according to the questions?
So they will never esper my time limit or per my memory limit it.
We need to think on the basis of the constraints.
So we have an in him and in the lens of that name is an number and then they strip our six and go still
and to about three only.
The second line contains and indeed this great.
What we have is we have three, five, one, two, three.
And it will give me years because if I take the sum of all three, then it is due to the way I react
and add one and six.
That means only five and five is not diesel by six.
We know that.
So another example input is four and six before these four numbers I have.
We can see that this three one is diesel by four, this is diesel by four or all of them combined a
diesel by Ford or these three.
And this one is diesel by four.
Right.
So good.
Now, what we have is we have six, six and.
We have five sixes.
We have six face paint.
And so we can see see we take some of all of them combined it will be six, but it goes up for now.
Let's just ignore this the constraints and let's just think of this solution based on the problem.
But it is subset sum only with just one additional concern, which is.
It should reduce the sum should reduce L by eight.
So let me open this quickly and let me talk about the first example, because it is in faith.
Okay.
So.
So you remember we have this table in which.
We have the stable.
In which.
Let's take this to the numbers.
One, two, three.
Those are these numbers.
And for us, hunger is what we want for a particular sum.
Let's say I want this.
I'm doing diesel by right now.
So what can I do for this?
Someday we we to buy five instead of picking five as the bomb one.
Do you know what I can do is I can just take modulo sums.
So moralism if I do it any number by five.
If I dig more by five, I can get 012348 only four numbers zero one, two, three, four.
So now what I will do is what will be my deep state here?
My deep state will be simple that.
Tell me if.
Or DPA.
I just see.
Tell me if.
Some mard am equals to g.
It's possible.
Basically if one model is on, it's possible to model is possible.
Three more to the same is possible.
Automotive this sum is possible or basically five models of five or ten model of five is possible.
So basically it is nothing but some model and if it is possible for a particular g is possible for first
items.
Items.
Right now, I'm just clarifying on the things regarding to the models here so we can see if I take one
then only this is possible, right?
All the others are not possible.
It means one model of five is only possible.
Correct.
Which is one.
Now if I take two also, then I have two options.
Either I can take two or I can not two.
Well, firstly, let's not take two.
If I don't take two, this is always possible.
Eight.
And if I take two, that means one model was possible.
Two one plus two models.
Five is also possible, which is nothing but the eight.
So I just add one more here and all of others will be zero.
Correct.
Now what about three guys?
So if I don't take three, these two will be possible.
But let's say I take three also.
That means.
This from this will see that one modulo three mode five is possible which is four.
I'll just mark one over here and we can also see that one.
This that means three, three plus three.
Modulo five is also possible and.
That is a.
But okay.
The one place to place.
Yeah.
And that is how much to modify this one.
So this is also possible, right?
I hope I'm not missing something over here.
Yeah.
So one thing that's easily missed, which is this.
This, too, is also possible, right?
Because let's only take two.
So if I only take two, these two will also be possible at the sum of two and four.
And if I had three over here, then you get two plus three more at five, which is zero eight.
There you go.
Two possible.
So here you can see that the modulo some.
Of zero is possible after.
Okay.
One will also come over here so you can see.
You see one is possible.
Two is possible is responsible for it is possible and even zero is possible.
So if I have m that means my columns in this table will be less than M correct.
It will start from zero and go.
And how many rows will be there?
Rows will be equal to the land of the 88 that I know this solution is nothing but equal to MN in into
m solution.
But according to the constraints, we can see that an interim solution won't work.
Eight But what's the catch here?
These are spatial catch and that's very interesting, although it will it will actually revise our mathematics
a little bit.
And I hope this part is very clear how to formulate this table eight.
So for any number, that number is possible.
We'll take just a extra special case, right?
So these don't get confused by, you know, making the 0s1 initially.
Don't make this one.
Don't make this zero is one initially.
Why am I saying so?
Because.
This did do it.
Volume.
When Jay-Z goes to zero represents whether some modulo m is equal to zero possible or not.
This is only possible if I take some subsegments and it is not there someway is some is equal to zero
possible or not it means some more low ambiguous to zero is possible or not.
Basically five, ten, 15, 20.
All of them are low.
Five will give me zero rate.
But this is what this column represents, not whether some of zero is possible or not.
Well, I hope you don't.
Of find this out.
And sometimes it might also represent whether somebody's responsible.
And let's see if the first element is zero.
That means someone zero will be possible.
But indirectly, the role model is equal to zero.
So that will work.
So let's say I have this one five and zero letter.
This is my input.
One element zero five.
It will then be true because zero five is zero wrecked.
Yeah.
So elements can be zero.
But we don't have to initially market in zero.
Let it come.
Let it come to visit.
Right.
Yeah.
So what's the another catch that this problem has?
It's very related to mathematics, and it's very, very, very related to a principle in mathematics.
Let me quickly write it.
It's called P general principle.
I hope you all know about it.
And it's a very, very easy the most easiest thing in mathematics.
And this B general principle is nothing but common sense.
And that means.
If let's say, if there are.
Five pigeonholes.
Visual aid.
That means there are five pigeonholes.
Right.
And I have.
So I have six pigeons.
I have six positions.
I want to put them six.
Put this experience into five pigeonholes.
That means at least.
At least one pigeonhole.
We'll have.
Two or more regions.
Okay.
So basically, if the number of pigeons is greater than the pigeon holes, it means an all of the pigeon
holes will contain.
So any of the pigeon holes may contain zero, although they can have zero pigeon also.
For example, let's put all its experience in this book and it will be correct that at least one pigeon
hole will have two or more pigeons.
So this is pigeon will be it is common sense.
Also, we can also say it's common sense.
Eight.
Yeah.
Well, Howard, is this pigeon hole principle related to the problem?
Let me quickly add some space here and then we will.
Okay.
Just imagine.
Just imagine that end is greater than him.
And it's very nice.
It's very easy approach, but it's a very nice approach that Alexa is greater than him.
And so for now, I'm just taking an example and let's say I'm is five and is six or seven or can be
any value.
Let me take it.
So this is a.
And as it goes to air right now and instead of feeling values over reality, there are some excellent
x2x3x4x5x6.
x7x8x9.
Okay, so later there are these x nine values.
Let me give more space.
Yep.
So what I will do is I will take the prefix sums.
So we all know that a somebody.
In a subsequent.
So if I'm able to prove that, what end?
If end is greater than them, then there is a sub area with the modulus.
I'm equal to zero eight.
That means there is a subsequent bid.
Some which is divisible by it.
Correct.
Because so therefore I do the subsequent which is all the possible eight.
So what I'll do is I'll take the prefix sums, but let's dig deeper if examine let's name them b1,
b2, b3 before b5 b6 b7 b eight and B9 eight.
Basically what is any one of them?
It is nothing but.
Or this before.
Or instead for this paper is submission of essays from a equals 212 equals two.
Accommodate the.
Hate to be the is.
I mean you know I go through and do I equals to date somebody for example we all know this.
Well know just tell me one thing that what I will do is instead of just finding out the victims, the
better would be to take victims, more eliminate.
So here what I do is I it because it's not equal to to fix them more glue him.
Getting through the.
All these values which are B1, B2, B3 before B5.
He said when bearded, benign.
They all are less than him because I have taken them.
All right.
So I will just show you.
Why am I doing all of this?
Because let's bring in a brief example, and I've just taken their models.
Now, why are we doing this?
Because here we can see all those values are less in eight.
So here we can see that end is equal to nine rates and is equal to nine.
And let's Americans to fight.
We are taking a case, Bill, and these are greater than them.
So if all these values are less than five, then the values can only be zero one, two, three or four
eight.
So they tell me if all these values can be only zero and do three or four, then there will be at least
one value which is repeating.
That's general principle, right?
So if B one is zero, it is one.
It is true.
It is to do this for let's assume then P six has to be one of zeros, one stools, three or four.
Right?
It has to be one of these values.
Only eight.
That means there.
Is.
There is at least one value which is repeating out of these five values.
There is one repeating value.
That's the main part of the problem.
But let's see.
If B three was equal to some number in one of these five values, and B seven is also equal to this
number only, which is related, B seven is equal to P3 eight.
So we all know that there will be one really, which is the at least one value, if any, is greater
than them.
But because we have m different values to give, but the, the place holders which need those values
are greater.
Eight So if those place or less are greater than him, then simply there will be some values repeating.
Now let's repeat it is equal to P7.
What does this mean?
If B is equal to P7, there are two speeds repeat reason x one plus sextuplets x three.
Correct.
And what is b7 it is examined by sextuplets x three.
Plus x four plus x five, six, six, six, seven and eight.
I'm saying both of them are equal.
That means.
These values.
That means this x4 2x7 which is excellent x four plus x five.
Plus x x plus x seven.
Their model awesome is he goes to zero correct or not because I hope you remember that when we want
to find out.
But if someone for particular at what we do is we say but if for example, odd minus but if example.
L minus one.
Correct.
So here's what I'm doing is I'm saying L minus one is equal to three and our is equal to seven.
So L is equal to four and it is equal to seven.
That means I'm at a 4 to 7.
There some modulo m will be zero because we get three is equal to b78.
So B3 is equal to be seven.
If what is values are same, that means the area which is bounded by them, they will have a sum which
is zero eight.
So there's some exactly min or b zero.
But when I, when I take more and by that it will be zero.
Correct.
Because we can easily see there's some side equal eight.
So also what I can do, I can write it as like this also that B3 plus x4.
X four plus x five +6667.
Modulo m.
Izzy goes to Peacehaven and we can see that Peter is he goes to Peacehaven.
That means this is equal to zero.
So we can provide this filter.
So if there if there are zero, then there will be a summary which will have a model equal to zero.
That means it is.
It means that somebody is diesel y.
That's a and we know that.
So there is also a subsequent.
So basically, if any is greater than him, then there will be.
Also buried.
There will be a summary which will be diesel back and.
Well, I hope this is very clear to for and then and we know it will be true.
Now, what about the second case when and less than he goes to it?
So now we can see where the concern for him is concerned of damage to the power.
And we know that.
And it's now less than equal to him.
So basically and we'll all trivialize and he goes through ten inches about three eight.
So what if end is greater than that?
Then do we know it is true if any is greater than 8 to 4 and greater than him?
Answer is nothing but true that yes did exist.
But if any less than equal to him, and will be less than including his to the power three.
That means now I can do.
I can use my and undo him approach that I discussed earlier.
Correct.
This is an example that we already discussed the substitution problem.
So here just one thing that now you need to use modulo just remember one thing.
Just remember this basically case of this zero column and whenever you're updating anything, just update
it by taking Mode eight.
If you are on the question three just and you're updating some exercise three.
But as I say, mortem should be updated, correct?
So.
That's what I wanted to tell you about models.
This model listing is very interesting, actually, because, you know, it actually goes in a cycle.
You know, more and more little is discovered in the computer programming course.
And yeah, so let's see in the next part.
I'm not cutting it.
I'm just leaving the code to you eight and we'll see this in the next meeting.
We might see some of the problems in the.
Well, thanks.